In this video will be installing the code light IDE or integrated development environment on the Ubuntu
Linux platform.
Code light is a free open source cross-platform IDE that works with C++ and it works across Windows,
Linux as well as Mac.
So we'll start by opening up your favorite browser and going to code light that code light and you'll
get a web page similar to this and you want to find the download link.
Now there's one at the top menu and there's also this big blue button here.
That's the one I'm going to use.
So I'm just going to select code light to download and you can give a contribution to the developers
if you wish, or you can go straight to the downloads, which is what I'll do here.
Now we're we're going to download Code Lite 11.0, which is a stable release and we're going to download
this for Ubuntu.
Now you can see here you've got a Windows installer and OS ten installer and so forth and you can refer
to those videos if that's the platform you're on.
But this specific video is for Linux, so you could see here it says setup code lite repository for
Ubuntu.
That's the one I'm going to select.
A word of caution.
These commands are run a super user, as you can see here with the pseudo.
So be very careful when you type things in.
Make sure you're typing things exactly correctly.
What I'm doing is I'm not even going to type.
I'm simply going to copy and paste.
That way.
I know that I'm making no mistakes.
So first step is to copy this one line right here.
And basically what we've got to do this a lot of information on this page regarding official and unofficial
and so forth, and I'll show you the one that worked great for me.
So what we're going to do is we're going to copy this line of code here, then we're going to copy this
line of code here.
And the version I've got is initial universe.
So that's the one I'm going to have 16.0 for boom two.
So that's the one I'm going to choose.
And then we're going to do a couple more lines and that's it.
Now the install takes quite a while.
The last time I did this install it was about 10 minutes, 15 minutes on my machine.
So I'm going to pause the video as the install happens and we're going to do the install in a terminal
window.
So you can see the terminal window is here.
I've opened it up so I'm going to make this just a little smaller so we can do both at once and you
can see what's going on.
Okay, perfect.
So let's get started.
Let's copy this first line right here and I'm going to copy and paste it over here, press enter and
it's going to ask you for your password.
Obviously, you have to have root access or be super user to install this code.
So I'm going to press enter and that takes care of the first line.
I'm going to scroll down and get the second line.
Now make sure that you replace this string here with the correct distribution of your Ubuntu minus xeno.
So that's the one I'm going to use.
I'm going to copy this just like that.
I'll paste it.
This time it won't ask me for my password.
Then I'll go down to the third line, which is the update.
I'll copy that and paste it as well.
And that'll just take us a few minutes.
That's done.
Now, the last line is the one that takes a long time to install someone, to copy, paste, press,
enter, and I'll go have a cup of coffee in a little bit.
It says here, after this operation, we need 451 megabytes of disk space.
I've got plenty of disk space, so that's fine.
And I'll just say continue.
Yes.
And I'll pause the video now and be back in about 10 minutes.
At this point, code light has now been installed.
In the next video, we'll run it and configure it.